Microsoft owned Azure basics – A cloud platform 
a huge collection of servers and networking hardware, which runs a complex set of distributed applications
Create VM Virtual Machine 
SSH into your VM – secure socket shell
Install Azure CLI

Create two Repositories – check video?

What is the cloud and what can you do with it?

Office – on premises 	Internet	Servers in Data center in region 1 – has its own cooling and power supply for backup. Eg.diesel generators	AWS
Home - local		Servers in Data center in region 2 – data centers are in different regions	
	The cloud – services and resources on the internet on demand 

Advantages of using the cloud 
•	Linked to external generators for back up  - back up infrastructure
•	Secure data 
•	Size of data center – economic scale buying in bulk is cheaper at peak times

Types of cloud:
Public cloud: for the general public; cloud storage to share, multi tenant 

Private cloud: single tenant cloud, dedicated by company (own private data center or hosted by third party. Does not have to be connected to internet. 

Hybrid cloud: mix of on premises and public cloud for resilience or disaster: back up

Multi cloud: using different cloud providers  



Shared responsibility – concepts 

•	IAAS (infrastructure as a service) service provider manages infrastructure. User has access to API and rents the infrastructure.
•	PAAS (platform as a service) – SQL service data base. Hardware and software platform provided and managed by cloud service provider. User manages the apps and the data the app replies on.
•	SAAS – (software as a service) you only need to manage data; don’t need to worry about managing other shared responsibilities. Service that delivers software application. SAAS are web applications or mobile apps. 

Using the cloud
Advantages 	Disadvantages 
Scalable on expansion of you need more computing resources; higher demand. 

Security 
Backup – power source 	Long response time possibly 
Less control in terms of management 

Hybrid or multi cloud
Advantages 	Disadvantages cloud
Mix of premises for resilience or protection from disaster 
Tailor to best service 	Complexity branches
Cost can be more expensive 
Security management 



On premises vs cloud. What is cheaper?
Cloud is cheaper because they can scale and buy servers in bulk. Cloud storage over hdd

Which cloud provider is best and why?
AWS – it has different types of cloud computing  - F1 runs data through aws


Presentation on cloud and advantage disadvantage

Microsoft Azure:
Monthly uptime percentage and service credit percentage you receive back – guarantee on service and what azure will compensate back as a percentage. 
Total cost of ownership TCO (on premises vs Cloud) 


Cloud providers market share top 3 
AWS
Azure – rising the most, Integration of services in one ecosystem
Google 

Smaller providers – difficult to get expertise engineers 
IBM, alibama 
Specialize in google and Microsoft to get paid more? More in demand 

What is Azure? How is it organized?
Tenant root group – active directory – entire setup
Root Management groups - help access policies and manage subs, managing specific size of virtual machine to reduce cost, ensure and enforce compliance, allow auditors to have permission to read only. 

Management groups can have sub management groups. 

Subscriptions – a way of separating payment account for bill, they have quotas, maximum of 980 resource groups. 

Pay as you go subscription eg -most popular. 
Limited Free subscription 

Resources groups - containers. Cannot have sub groups  
AWS does not have to use resource groups. Azure must have resource group. 

Resources: SQL etc 

What can we do with the cloud?

Manage and store data – processing data
Hosting software 
Computing resources 

Find your way around azure?
Create repository in GitHUB

Capital expenditure: large expenditure on premises – upfront cost – on premisis
Operational expenditure: cost spread out monthly – the cloud help with planning and budgeting. 

Tags: key pair to identify resources and billed grouped depending on the tag 
Team: sales team 1
Azure data storage into groups 

Pipeline: code gets pushed, checked, tested and delopyed -  pathway of automation
Azure category branch image: 

